Title: English

----

Paragraphs: 

- 
  header: Research and experimentation
  content: >
    Through an action research approach, the
    project seeks to identify easily
    scalable and reproducible solutions, in
    order to make the major art museums in
    Ticino accessible to persons with visual
    impairments, thus furthering the free
    access to the world of art and culture.
    The theoretical research element of the
    project will include in-depth studies of
    the subject, a mapping of Swiss and
    foreign good practices, and an in-depth
    survey of the blind and visually
    impaired public cultural practices. In
    addition, over the course of 2017, the
    project will also involve a
    well-structured series of practical
    trials, particularly by conducting
    multiple inclusive cultural mediation
    activities organised in collaboration
    with the project partners.
- 
  header: Art museums
  content: 'In order to test the identified solutions, it will be necessary to work on specific places and objects, studying them in detail from the artistic, conceptual, and material point of view. The cooperation of our museum partners is essential for this purpose: m.a.x.  Chiasso museum, the Civic Museum of the Villa dei Cedri in Bellinzona, the Municipal Museum of Modern Art and the Castle Museum of San Materno in Ascona, the Art Museum of Italian-speaking Switzerland (MASI Lugano), the Vincenzo Vela Museum in Ligornetto, the Giovanni Züst Cantonal Pinacoteca in Rancate, and the Mendrisio art Museum. Involving several institutions will enable the specific mediation solutions to be tested and adapted not only to diverse spaces, but especially to a variety of art forms belonging to various historical periods. The project relies on a wide network of prestigious museums that are representative in terms of openness to experimentation, the quality and variety of cultural mediation experiences, the diversity of the types of art collections, and geographical coverage of Italian-speaking Switzerland.'
- 
  header: People with visual impairments
  content: >
    Alongside the work on spaces and
    artworks, the needs and specific
    expectations of the blind and visually
    impaired public will be investigated in
    depth. The collaboration with Unitas,
    the Association of the Blind and
    Visually Impaired of Ticino, plays a key
    role in developing, testing, and
    promoting solutions capable of meeting
    the needs of people with visual
    impairments.
- 
  header: Sharing
  content: >
    The project is set up as a laboratory
    for investigating, testing,
    implementing, and disseminating
    inclusive cultural mediation measures
    and good practices, for people with
    impaired vision, the results of which
    will be promoted at all Swiss
    institutions and set out in a freely
    accessible operational protocol released
    under Creative Commons licenses.